Procedure Oriented Programming

deals with functions only
lots of functions we write to achieve the given assignment ( i.e. a project )
when the volume of application becomes large, we write more and more functions and thus the code becomes difficult to manage or maintain.
There is no data security in Procedure Oriented Programming. The data (global data) can be modified from any function any time.
POP does not deal with real world problems or entities like 
	person,vehicle,company,account,tour etc.


Object Oriented Programming

deals with all real life problems or entities like person,vehicle,company,account,tour etc.   

provides data security , data is not feely available.

What is object?

in our everyday life we see all objects around us. 
What does that mean? What are the different object we see around us?

person
AC
chair
laptop
Mobile

Now when you see all these objects there are two imp. aspects
a) you need to describe how exactly these objects would be and their behaviour
e.g.
when you talk about person basic attributes like
	name,age,address etc.
and the behaviour is "walk","talk","eat","sleep" etc.

	 Object Oriented Programming allows you to describe the objects using the concept of "class". So in case of person we write:

class Person
{
	name
	age
	address

	walk()
	{
		walking
	}
	talk()
	{
		talking
	}
	eat()
	{
		eating
	}
	sleep()
	{
		sleeping
	}
}

b) you actually see these objects e.g. in case of person people around us are objects , they have their name,age,address etc. (attributes) and they also have behaviours i.e. they all walk,talk,eat,sleep etc.

So class and object are very imp. concept in object oriented programming.
class- is a blueprint,just an idea of how object would be. It actually describes the object
object - is a real life entity which we can see around us, we can talk about it.

for a particular class there can be n number of objects.

for e.g. for the above  "Person" class we can have
Sachin,Vishal,Rahul,Reeta,Pooja etc. objects. i.e. these people ,we can say they are all objects of type "Person".


now think about class and object concept in other examples such as
AC
Laptop
Chair
Mobile



